update clause 7 for editorial changes. (#83)
wmo-im/wis2-topic-hierarchy: standard/sections/clause_7_normative_text.adoc

== The WIS2 Topic Hierarchy

The WIS Topic Hierarchy (WTH) provides a structure used by data providers and WIS Global Services in support of core WIS workflows: publish, discover, subscribe and download. 

> The WIS2 Topic Hierarchy is included in the discovery metadata record <<see section X>>, made available by WIS brokers <<see Y>>, and selected by users to subscribe and receive notifications <<see Z>>. 

Reviewer: The WIS2 Topic Hierarchy is provides a mechanism for users to subscribe to and receive data or metadata notifications, and is used in discovery metadata records as well as WIS2 brokers.

=== Conformance Class Core

==== Overview

This Core Conformance Class provides requirements for the definition and management of the WIS2 Topic Hierarchy.

include::../requirements/requirements_class_core.adoc[]

The WTH is composed of primary topics (levels 1-7) and sub-discipline specific topics (level 8 and beyond).

> //change .."and services" to "..and resources"?

Reviewer: +1 to change "and services" to "and resources", please update?

> The primary topics apply to all data and services in WIS.  They are relational, meaning that any combination of the values in each level can be used to construct a topic applicable to a notification.

Author: ```suggestion
The primary topics apply to all data, metadata, and reports in WIS. They are relational, meaning that any combination of the values in each level can be used to construct a topic applicable to a notification.
```

The sub-discipline topics are proposed by domain experts and user communities.  These levels are a hierarchical representation of the dataset and the number of levels in this part may vary according to the requirements of various domains.

> The representation is encoded as a simple text string of values in each topic level separated by a "/". For example, ``origin/a/wis2/data/ca-eccc/core/weather/surface-based-observations/synop`` or ``origin/a/wis2/data/ca-eccc/recommended/atmospheric-composition/experimental/space-based-observation/geostationary/solar-flares``.

Reviewer: Change "/" to ``/``

|2
|version
|Alphabetical version of the topic hierarchy, currently: ``a`` 

|3
|system
|Fixed value of ``wis2`` for WIS2

|4
|centre-id
|Acronym as specified by member and endorsed by the PR of the country and WMO

|5
|notification-type

> |WIS2 notification types (``data``, ``metadata``, or ``reports`` [from monitoring activities])

Author: Do we remove reports from here too?

|2
|version
|Alphabetical version of the topic hierarchy, currently: ``a`` 

|3
|system
|Fixed value of ``wis2`` for WIS2

|4
|centre-id
|Acronym as specified by member and endorsed by the PR of the country and WMO

|5
|notification-type
|WIS2 notification types (``data``, ``metadata``, or ``reports`` [from monitoring activities])

|6
|data-policy
|Data policy as defined by the WMO Unified Data Policy. ``core`` data are available with open access on a free and unrestricted basis and ``recommended`` data are available from the original NC/DCPC which may require authentication or authorization

|7
|earth-system-discipline
|Seven high-level categories as defined by the WMO Unified Data Policy, Annex 1: (``atmospheric-composition``, ``climate``, ``cryosphere``, ``hydrology``, ``ocean``, ``space-weather``, or ``weather``)

|===

> .WTH example table of sub-discipline topics

Reviewer: Suggest we introduce this table at later time, when WTH is populated further.

Author: perhaps. @wmo-im/tt-wismd -- what do you think of this table?

|===
|Level 8 topics|Level 9 topics|Level 10 topics

|atmospheric-composition
|experimental
|

|cryosphere
|experimental
|
|....
|experimental
|

|weather
|experimental
|
|
|surface-based-observations
|synop
|
|
|temp
|===

==== Publishing guidelines

> For maximum utility and efficient management of topics, it is recommended that ``data``, ``metadata``, and ``reports`` need to be published to a detailed level. This helps with avoiding "pollution" of messages under the primary topics.  Note that each discipline has a sub-discipline topic named ``experimental`` for publication to provisional topics.

Reviewer: Remove "reports".

include::../requirements/core/REQ_publishing.adoc[]
include::../recommendations/core/REC_publishing.adoc[]
include::../recommendations/core/PER_publishing.adoc[]

==== Management

> //new text

Author: new text below

|3
|system
|Fixed value of [wis2] for WIS2

|4
|centre-id
|Acronym as specified by member and endorsed by the PR of the country and WMO

|5
|notification-type
|WIS2 notification types ([data], [metadata], or [reports] [from monitoring activities])

|6
|data-policy
|Data policy as defined by the WMO Unified Data Policy. [core] data are available with open access on a free and unrestricted basis and [recommended] data are available from the original NC/DCPC which may require authentication or authorisation

|7
|earth-system-discipline
|Seven high-level categories as defined by the WMO Unified Data Policy, Annex 1: ([atmospheric-composition], [climate], [cryosphere], [hydrology], [ocean], [space-weather], or [weather])

|===

==== Management
{{_I think these two paragraphs belong in the introduction_}}

> The WTH is managed by the WMO. Updates to the WTH are made as part of two workflows: primary levels and domain specific levels.

Author: normalize "domain specific levels"?

1. Primary topic levels (levels 1-7): topic structure applies to all data and services in WIS.  They are relational, meaning that any combination of each level can be used to construct a topic applicable to a data or metadata notification

> 2. Domain specific topic subcategory levels (level 8 and beyond): topic structures proposed by domain experts and user communities.  These levels are a hierarchical representation of the dataset and the the number of levels in this part may vary according to the requirements of various domains.

Author: normalize "Domain specific topic subcategory levels (level 8 and beyond)"

==== Centre identification

The centre identifier (``centre-id``) is an acronym as specified by the member and endorsed by the PR of the country and WMO.  It is a single identifier comprised of a top-level domain (TLD) and centre name. It represents the data publisher, distributor or issuing centre of a given dataset, data product, data granule or other resource.

include::../requirements/core/REQ_centre-id.adoc[]
include::../recommendations/core/REC_centre-id.adoc[]
include::../recommendations/core/PER_centre-id.adoc[]

== Resources
//I don't think we need more examples for the WTH

=== All topics

> A zip file of all the approved topics is available at https://schemas.wmo.int/wis2/wth/a/1.0/wth.zip.

Reviewer: https://schemas.wmo.int/wth/a/wth-a.zip

A browseable and searchable codelist of all topics can be found at https://codes.wmo.int/wis2/wth.

=== Compliance

> Conformance with this standard shall be checked using the tests specified the Conformance Class Abstract Test Suite (Normative). It is published at https://schemas.wmo.int/wis2/wth/ats.

Reviewer: https://schemas.wmo.int/wth/a/ats
